# tblcheck (development version)

# tblcheck 0.3.0

* Add `tbl_equal()`, which returns a `TRUE` or `FALSE` value indicating if two tables are equivalent, using the same process as `tbl_check()`.
* `tbl_check()`, `tbl_grade()`, `tbl_check_column()`, `tbl_grade_column()` and `vec_grade()` gain arguments to set whether they will check the levels of factors.
* `vec_check()` and `vec_grade()` now only check factor levels if both `object` and `expected` are factors. In most cases, this difference would be caught earlier by class checking. Previously, calling `vec_check(x, factor(x), check_class = FALSE)` would signal a problem because one vector has levels and the other does not.

# tblcheck 0.2.2

* Messages generated by `tbl_grade_class()` now internally call two generic S4 functions:
  * `friendly_class()` generates class names for single objects.
    * e.g. `friendly_class(character(1))` returns "a text string (class `character`)".
  * `hinted_class_message()` generates messages when `object` and `expected` are both a specific class.
    * e.g. if `object` is an ungrouped tibble and `expected` is a grouped tibble, `hinted_class_message()` generates a message that suggests using `group_by()`.
  * Using generic functions allows `tbl_grade_class()` messages to be expanded by adding methods for new classes in tutorial setup code or external packages.
  
# tblcheck 0.2.1

* `grade_this_table()` now sets `pass_if_equal = FALSE` by default (#128).

# tblcheck 0.2.0

* Improve messages generated by `tbl_grade_class()`:
  - Messages now only suggest using the functions `group_by()`, `ungroup()` and `rowwise()` if both `object` and `expected` are `data.frame`s (#119).
  - Messages now describe non-atomic variables with length > 1 as "objects", not "vectors" (#122).

* `problem()` and `problem_message()` are now exported functions. The first helps other packages create problem objects and the second is a generic method that can be used to turn a problem object into a human readable description (#124).

## Deprecated Functions

* `tblcheck_grade()` is now called `problem_grade()`. The old function name will continue to work, but a deprecation warning will prompt you to update to `problem_grade()` (#124).

# tblcheck 0.1.3

* Add `tolerance` argument to `vec_*_values()` (#111).

# tblcheck 0.1.2

* Adds argument `ignore_class` to class checks (and passed by `table`, `vector`, and `column` checks), specifying class differences to ignore (#109).
* Table checking now ignores the `grouped_df` class if `check_groups = FALSE` (#109).
* Classes are now checked with `setequal()` instead of `identical()`, so objects with the same classes in different orders will not trigger a `class` problem (#109).
* Fixed a bug where a message would not be generated for a values problem where two vectors were different but were made up of the same unique values (e.g. `c(1, 2, 3)` and `c(2, 1, 3, 2)`) (#104).

# tblcheck 0.1.1

* Fixed the messages for values problems originating in columns to mention the problematic column (#100).
* A new vignette with exercise examples demonstrates the types of feedback `grade_this_table()` and `grade_this_vector()` provide (#95).
* `vec_grade_values()` now treats `NA` values in the same position of the `object` and `expected` vectors as equal (#96).
* `grade_this_table()` was updated to include the `cols` and `check_column_order` arguments that were recently added to `tbl_grade()` (#92).


# tblcheck 0.1.0

- New package for inspecting data frames and vectors for grading with `gradethis`.
- Includes drop-in `gradethis`-style grading for tables and vectors that compare the student's result with the exercies `-solution`:
  - `grade_this_table()` for automated grading of **tables**
  - `grade_this_vector()` for automated grading of **vectors**
- Additional, lower-level functions come in two variants, a `grade` function that returns a `gradethis` grade and a `check` function that returns a list detailing the differences between actual and expected output.
- Includes three general purpose checking functions:
  1. `tbl_grade()` and `tbl_check()` check that a tibble or data frame matches an expected output.
  2. `vec_grade()` and `vec_check()` check that a vector marches an expected output.
  3. `tbl_grade_column()` and `tbl_check_column()` check that a single column of a tibble or data frame matches an expected output (powered by `vec_grade()` and `vec_check()`).
- Includes six even more specific checking functions:
  1. `tbl_grade_class()`, `tbl_check_class()`, `vec_grade_class()` and `vec_check_class()` check that the class of an object matches that of an expected output.
  2. `tbl_grade_dimensions()`, `tbl_check_dimensions()`, `vec_grade_dimensions()` and `vec_check_dimensions()` check that the length, number of rows and columns, and number of dimensions of an object match that of an expected output.
  3. `tbl_grade_groups()` and `tbl_check_groups()` check that the groups of a table (created by `dplyr::group_by()`) match that of an expected output.
  4. `vec_grade_levels()` and `vec_check_levels()` check that the levels of a factor match that of an expected output.
  5. `tbl_grade_names()`, `tbl_check_names()`, `vec_grade_names()` and `vec_check_names()` check that the names of an object match that of an expected output.
  6. `vec_grade_values()` and `vec_check_values()` check that the values of a vector match that of an expected output.
- Also includes a number of functions for dealing with the `problem` output of `check` functions.
